Unlike TCP, UDP connections are _stateless_. This means that, rather than initiating a connection with a back-and-forth "handshake", UDP connections rely on sending packets to a target port and essentially hoping that they make it. This makes UDP superb for connections which rely on speed over quality (e.g. video sharing), but the lack of acknowledgement makes UDP significantly more difficult (and much slower) to scan. The switch for an Nmap UDP scan is (`-sU`)  
  
When a packet is sent to an open UDP port, there should be no response. When this happens, Nmap refers to the port as being `open|filtered`. In other words, it suspects that the port is open, but it could be firewalled. If it gets a UDP response (which is very unusual), then the port is marked as _open_. More commonly there is no response, in which case the request is sent a second time as a double-check. If there is still no response then the port is marked _open|filtered_ and Nmap moves on.  
  
When a packet is sent to a _closed_ UDP port, the target should respond with an ICMP (ping) packet containing a message that the port is unreachable. This clearly identifies closed ports, which Nmap marks as such and moves on.  
  
Due to this difficulty in identifying whether a UDP port is actually open, UDP scans tend to be incredibly slow in comparison to the various TCP scans (in the region of 20 minutes to scan the first 1000 ports, with a good connection). For this reason it's usually good practice to run an Nmap scan with `--top-ports <number>` enabled. For example, scanning with  `nmap -sU --top-ports 20 <target>`. Will scan the top 20 most commonly used UDP ports, resulting in a much more acceptable scan time.  
When scanning UDP ports, Nmap usually sends completely empty requests -- just raw UDP packets. That said, for ports which are usually occupied by well-known services, it will instead send a protocol-specific payload which is more likely to elicit a response from which a more accurate result can be drawn.